so a little while ago I spent four years
in school learning Mandarin Chinese my
friends who also took the class still
weren't near fluent and taking a four
year course in school when you could
have reached the same skill level in six
months on your own well it's pretty easy
to tell which is the better option we're
dealing with two very different
questions here and it's easy to get them
confused because they overlap in a
dynamic way one question is what is and
what is not a good method of learning a
language and the second question is what
are you willing to do
I completely agree that it's possible to
learn more sitting at home alone in your
own apartment with no teacher just
working with your computer and some
textbooks it's possible to learn more in
six months alone in your apartment then
you would learn in two years or even
four years in a university program
especially with the Chinese language
it's possible but are you willing to do
it are you really so highly motivated
and so self disciplined that you
actually would sit down and hit the
books for six months solid and get those
rewards get those outcomes or are you
the kind of person who needs the social
experience who needs the encouragement
of seeing a teacher face-to-face of
seeing other students of seeing the
other student's progress of seeing maybe
at some points that you're falling
behind seeing in other points that maybe
in some ways you're more talented the
other students getting ahead that may
motivate you that maybe in an indirect
way what compels you forward in learning
Chinese or whatever language your study
even though the methods being used in
the classroom may be horrendously
inefficient you may learn far less than
some other person would who was willing
to just sit at home with the computer
and the textbooks and work unbelievably
hard for six months with no teacher with
no colleagues with no one coverage Minh
Pimsleur Pimsleur is hands-down one of
the most efficient ways to learn a
language it is laugh out loud hilarious
that this guy has just
slammed and insulted rosetta stone as a
terrible way to learn Chinese and he's
now praising Pimsleur as one of the best
ways to learn Chinese in the world no no
way dude look I've used Pimsleur for
Chinese so I could say this with direct
experience for the Chinese language
specifically Pimsleur is the worst
method on the planet and that is because
of the unique and uniquely awful
relationship between the written form
and the spoken form with Chinese and
because of all of the distinctions that
you really can't make but you're alone
as a native speaker of English learning
Chinese
Pimsleur may work well for you if you're
learning German it may work well for you
if you're learning Italian those are the
languages it was developed for that the
scientists who founded the company
worked on mostly teaching French Italian
German these European languages okay
when you get into Chinese Japanese Thai
Cambodian even a difficult language
Jib way or Crete no the Pimsleur method
isn't just poor its laugh-out-loud
hilariously awful for teaching or
learning Chinese and that's why the
methods used by the US diplomatic corps
the US military etc do not resemble
Pimsleur however if you look at the
differences in similarities between
Pimsleur and rosetta stone it's kind of
hilarious that he just insulted rosetta
stone oh that turns around and praises
Pimsleur but if you love the Pimsleur
method if you are obsessed with if
you're passionate about listening to
these audio tapes and Pimsleur again and
again and again and you managed to learn
chinese the way this is what you are
motivated to this is what you're willing
to do that I can't knock it because
however inefficient and however deeply
flawed it may be eventually with enough
passion and enough repetition you will
get results ASIMO SML is a company that
creates and publishes foreign language
courses they are highly regarded by many
experienced language learners I am NOT
here to say that a Samil is a terrible
way to learn a language it's a main
dream corporate language education
product it's just really strange to me
that this guy hates on rosetta stone but
praises a semental basically what you
get with SML is the same as what you're
going to get with any language textbook
from any university there means three
methods there's absolutely nothing
special about it and with any particular
language if you compare what SML is
selling you to what rosetta stone is
selling you or any other mainstream
publisher or brand the difference is
going to be very slight so I do find
this strange that he's really promoting
and pushing SML and Pimsleur as if they
have something special to offer and then
the strangest thing of all is this claim
that it's effective with only 30 minutes
per day with Pimsleur you only need
about 30 minutes a day to become
proficient in a language this is good
because in 2020 only psychopaths have an
attention span of more than 30 minutes I
did make a separate YouTube video
specifically addressing this
misconception or you might say this
marketing ploy that you can learn a
language more effectively in only 30
minutes a day it's a lie it's also very
strange that this particular YouTube
channel says it in this context because
earlier in the video he said that if you
worked alone when he worked really hard
you could get better results than being
enrolled in a university course for many
months although I agree with that in
principle the question is during those
months working alone what are you
willing to do 30 minutes a day will not
get those results with Chinese you must
be joking just to look up one unfamiliar
word in the dictionary figured how to
write it properly figure out it's adam
ology figure out the components that
form it visually practice pronouncing
and practice using in a sentence figure
out in different context what kind of
different meanings it has just one
unfamiliar word is 30 minutes one
unfamiliar sentence one difficult
understand sentence can take you more
than 30 minutes Chinese is a very
difficult very time-consuming language
beginner intermediate and advanced
at no level with Chinese can you do 30
minutes a day if you think 30 minutes a
day with Pimsleur is enough for you to
work on German or Dutch or even Italian
good for you I'm happy I'm not planning
to like you know slap the microphone at
your mouth and say you're a bad youtuber
for claiming that but for Chinese 30
minutes a day for Chinese you must be
joking the way you are currently
learning a language is probably very
inefficient the best way to learn a
language isn't exactly plastered on a
wall for every newcomer to see apps like
duolingo and companies such as rosetta
stone capitalize on the inexperience of
newcomers offering them a way to start
learning a language without them knowing
that they could actually learn much more
much faster by utilizing better
resources one part of what we're doing
here is passing judgment on a particular
language learning method as being
effective or ineffective but the other
thing we're doing is passing judgment on
ourselves for what we are and are not
willing to do okay really terrible
really inefficient language learning
methods will still get results if you
are willing to do it in the old days
people used to praise to me going to
bars and flirting with bar girls in
workers local language probably if you
go back to the 1960s or even the 1860s
people would say this was a great way to
learn language why because they were
really motivated to do it me I'm not
that kind of guy
I I would not be willing to do that I
was the kind of guy who was willing to
go to manuscript Oriya and look at
ancient stone inscriptions and study all
kinds of weird stuff in the library
write essays about political history I
had a different kind of motivation
different things were rewarding for me
okay and that showed in which methods of
language learning language acquisition I
was willing to do and that I actually
actually did it in the 21st century
people don't just go to bars and flirt
with people face-to-face anymore
with learning language like Chinese or
learning language or Japanese a lot of
men are willing to pay websites where
they get to flirt with chitchat with a
pretty girl and
if probably there's something for women
and gay men maybe not but you can
probably flirt with someone you find
attractive over the Internet
I heard someone praising this method on
YouTube and saying that what he did was
he would record these languages so he
didn't just have the conversation once
he would have the conversation he would
record it then later he would play it
back he would write out the vocabulary
he would take notes on like the mistakes
he made right and he would even put the
recording the conversation on his cell
phone and listen to it back again like
while he was walking to do his grocery
shopping that's gotta be okay I can
imagine that being an effective method
of language teaching and language
learning where he's intensive ly
studying what he said in these
conversations and then going back and
having another conversation next week
memorizing finding mistakes doing
corrections Wow okay I can see the
virtue in it petti oh I would never do
that I am not willing to do that and I'm
not positively motivated to do that is
this really some kind of deep judgement
on Who I am or what kind of person I
wanna be maybe maybe maybe it's shallow
but even if it's shallow it's a very
real pragmatic importance if you meet
someone who really has the motivation to
just memorize a list of words the
vocabulary lest at the back of the
textbook an incredibly boring you know
repetitive kind of drudgery based method
of language learning that's gonna get
results right so I wouldn't discourage
that person I wouldn't say oh no no stop
memorizing the list of words at the back
of the textbook when you can be spending
your time chit-chatting with girls you
pay to flirt with you hook the Internet
what is most effective is partly a
judgement about these methods and it's
partly a judgment on who you are what
you are willing and motivated to get
done Anke Enki is a free application
that basically does two things one it's
an application to make digital
flashcards - it's a tool that tells you
which flashcards to study each day when
you see a flashcard you tell Anki if you
got it right or wrong and how hard it
was if you did get it right if you got
it right and it was easy you won't see
it again for a while
if you had trouble with it you'll see it
again soon in the year 2020 many many
applications have this kind of
functionality built into them by default
Plinko has an excellent card shuffling
program of this kind there's absolutely
no reason to use Anki I would say that
Anke is unbelievably time consuming in
terms of programming it to test you in
terms of the data input in terms of
creating and managing the card deck
don't lie to yourself try actually
timing how much effort you're putting
into that if your choice were between
between using Anki and pieces of paper I
would say every time use pieces of paper
because you will waste so much time
dealing with set-up card creation and
management with Anki it will never be
justified you'll never get more value
out of it than you would have gotten
just writing something down on a piece
of paper
and starting to learn immediately I
would say that pleco is an app that's
much better than Anki in many many
different ways including the connection
between it and the dictionary so you can
look up the words you didn't recognize
so on and so forth
however fundamentally you have to ask
yourself is technology really providing
you with something better than pen and
paper for this specific function aside
from the convenience of being able to
use a mobile phone while you're writing
the bus the answer is no using either
Pimsleur or Assam oh if you do 30
minutes a day six days a week you'll
reach decent proficiency in around six
months I would like to end the video
just by pointing out that that is an
outrageous lie unless you have a
footnote after the word proficiency
where you give it a special definition
that doesn't mean proficient at all
anyone who claims that they became
proficient in the Chinese language after
only six months could not possibly have
been studying for only thirty minutes
per day if you were taken prisoner
during World War two for six months and
you spent those six months in a prison
cell all day every day practicing
speaking fluent Chinese with all the
other people who are in prison with you
and maybe with a chalkboard and a piece
of chalk writing out
sizes like you were the only white
english-speaking person in a prison
where every other member of the prison
let's say everyone else in the prison is
also a language teacher and intellectual
now I want to help you learn okay it's a
very unusual prison sure maybe you
achieve professor proficiency in six
months working up more than twelve hours
a day
incredibly intensely and maybe you were
doing it motivated by fear for your life
because you knew at the end of that six
months you were going to be put on trial
and you'd have to plead your own case in
Chinese there you go perfect scenario if
you got proficient in six months afraid
you were gonna be executed by an unfair
court trying to learn Chinese with all
these people help you 12 to 14 hours a
day six months would feel like a long
time you'd make a lot of progress you'd
still have to provide a footnote on what
you mean by proficient because the
Chinese language there's really no way
you can learn it all it will be six
months I learned a new word a couple of
days ago a single syllable verb that
means to help someone along by lifting
them with one arm so it lifting someone
up with just one arm and helping them
along and this is one special word
Chinese the depth and variety of
vocabulary the way in which idiom and
sentence patterns unexpectedly
completely change the meaning of what
you think you understand when you don't
get the page Chinese doesn't take six
months and it doesn't take six years it
takes like sixty years so just gotta say
this youtuber is being 100% dishonest
with you I don't know why I don't know
what his definition of proficiency is
and even if something like this could be
claimed for casually learning Italian
for 30 minutes a day with Chinese
absolutely no chance don't kid yourself
and don't reward youtubers who say
flattering things to kit you what makes
the whole world go round in the 21st
century seems to be newspaper articles
and YouTube videos that provide you with
good excuses for your bad habits one of
those bad habits is being lazy fat us
self-indulgent it self-important they're
probably a lot of people who want to
think that 30 minutes a day listening to
Pimsleur audio tapes is enough and
they're probably very high
here this message and unfortunately it's
wrong wrong wrong